Create rule S7001: Detect Azure App Service Secrets APPSEC-1846 (#4037)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S7001/secrets/rule.adoc

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/description.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/rationale.adoc[]

=== What is the potential impact?

// Optional: Give a general description of the secret and what it's used for.

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate some impacts of an attacker
exploiting the secret.

// Set value that can be used to refer to the type of secret in, for example:
// "An attacker can use this {secret_type} to ..."
:secret_type: deployment password

> // Where possible, use predefined content for common impacts. This content can
> // be found in the folder "shared_content/secrets/impact".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:service_name: Azure App Service
```

> include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/infrastructure_takeover.adoc[]

Reviewer 2: `service_name` is missing.

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_compromise.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_modification.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/malware_distribution.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/financial_loss.adoc[]

== How to fix it

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/fix/revoke.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/fix/vault.adoc[]

=== Code examples

> :example_secret: o9tBKqylnMn2snB96hk5CMZbZkRhDJ1re5RiqzfdBjQytgTR4ly0M8ilEyfh¬

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:example_secret: o9tBKqylnMn2snB96hk5CMZbZkRhDJ1re5RiqzfdBjQytgTR4ly0M8ilEyfh
```

Just an assumption that this character shouldn't be there.

> :example_name: azure-app-service-deployment-password 

Reviewer 2: Maybe use something shorter for the names? The code samples get really long.

> :example_secret: o9tBKqylnMn2snB96hk5CMZbZkRhDJ1re5RiqzfdBjQytgTR4ly0M8ilEyfh¬
> :example_name: azure-app-service-deployment-password 
> :example_env: AZURE_APP_SERVICE_DEPLOYMENT_PASSWORD
> 
> include::../../../shared_content/secrets/examples.adoc[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Noncompliant code example

In general, never disclose the "PublishSettings" file, or any data coming from it. It looks like that:

[source,java,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant,subs="attributes"]
----
<publishData>
    <publishProfile 
        profileName="example" publishMethod="MSDeploy" 
        publishUrl="example.net:443" 
        msdeploySite="example"
        userName="$example"
        userPWD="6kkBCdit4ZTfs01By2RJjgRon9ly9yqetEBZhlz8MfDhn5qKrb5yhQRnMliM" <!-- Noncompliant -->
        destinationAppUrl="https://example.net"
        SQLServerDBConnectionString=""
        mySQLDBConnectionString=""
        hostingProviderForumLink=""
        controlPanelLink="https://portal.azure.com"
        webSystem="WebSites">
        <databases/>
    </publishProfile>
</publishData>     
 ----
```

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/description.adoc[]

== Why is this an issue?

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/rationale.adoc[]

=== What is the potential impact?

// Optional: Give a general description of the secret and what it's used for.

Below are some real-world scenarios that illustrate some impacts of an attacker
exploiting the secret.

// Set value that can be used to refer to the type of secret in, for example:
// "An attacker can use this {secret_type} to ..."
:secret_type: deployment password

:service_name: Azure App Service

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/infrastructure_takeover.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_compromise.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/data_modification.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/malware_distribution.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/impact/financial_loss.adoc[]

== How to fix it

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/fix/revoke.adoc[]

include::../../../shared_content/secrets/fix/vault.adoc[]

=== Code examples

==== Noncompliant code example

> Never disclose the "PublishSettings" file or at least never disclose its `userPWD` field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Never share the "PublishSettings" file, especially its `userPWD` field:
```

> In general, never disclose the "PublishSettings" file, or any data coming from it. It looks like that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Never disclose the "PublishSettings" file or at least never disclose its `userPWD` field:
```

[source,xml]
----
<publishData>
    <publishProfile 
        profileName="example" publishMethod="MSDeploy" 
        publishUrl="example.net:443" 
        msdeploySite="example"
        userName="$example"
        userPWD="6kkBCdit4ZTfs01By2RJjgRon9ly9yqetEBZhlz8MfDhn5qKrb5yhQRnMliM" <!-- Noncompliant -->
        destinationAppUrl="https://example.net"
        SQLServerDBConnectionString=""
        mySQLDBConnectionString=""
        hostingProviderForumLink=""
        controlPanelLink="https://portal.azure.com"
        webSystem="WebSites">
        <databases/>
    </publishProfile>
</publishData>     

>  ----

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
----
```

I think because of this the check is failing.
